Title: Computers, Internet, FOSS and me 
Date: 2018-04-21 11:00
Category: Linux, Networking 
Tags: Linux, Networking
Slug: computers,internet-FOSS-and-me 
Summary:  More about me and how I met the computers, the internet, and the FOSS 
Status: draft

This is my first blog post (ever) and I'll wander through my life in a colloquial way showing stages of my life and the relation to me nowadays. I've always been interested in computers as a boy, but I only met one operative system at that time, Microsoft Windows, the earliest version I used was Windows 98 and what I did on it? Well playing Age Of Empires, Star Craft and one of my favorites was an old jet fighters' simulation game. Moreover, I liked painting on the classic Microsoft Paint, creating abstract art like Jackson Pollock and drawing my mom's face with characteristics features like Picasso on “Weeping Woman” (completely amorphous). My parents knew my affinity for technology, thus they sent me to computers courses at a local institution, a boy next to adults and teenagers, I didn't care about that, There was a room full of computers and a professor teaching how to use them! Most of the activities were quite basic but I had fun, I was pleased to be there

 Being teenager I had my first personal desktop computer running Windows XP. I used it specially to read, to listen music, to play video games and INTERNET! Yes I started using internet, residential 256Kbps under ADSL technology provided by Cantv the national biggest PSTN, all this thanks to an ADSL modem, a hub and a hole through the wall where a UTP cable passed and connected to my desktop Ethernet PCI adapter. I loved to browse the internet and simply read about all kind of stuff, downloading music, games and movies using P2P clients like: eMULE, LimeWire, Ares, etc. (yeah, my computer had a lot of viruses) and doing my homework (Microsoft Office was the main suite for all related to school). Furthermore, I began playing MMORPGs on my late 13 years old, i mainly played one game, Maplestory, the MMORPGs in general left me two things. First, English, all my knowledge in English is based on self-learning. Second, more love for the internet, meeting friends around the globe. Employing the internet to communicate with them and learn about their cultures.

 The time passed, i stopped playing Maplestory, and well what else to do on my computer and the internet? at that time i was more in to.. what i'm going to do after i finish the highschool, i was interested in being an engineer, why? because they solve technical problems and create stuffs. After my highschool graduation and selecting some universities to study i got accepted in the Engineering faculty of the UC (Univerisdad de Carabobo) to study Telecommunications Engineering a recently open career at that time, i read the pensum and all the subjects were really cool and fascinating (i knew it wasn't completed related to the internet but it was the foundations to the communications and i had to know the basics).

The first years in the university were really hard for me, I didn't have a good math and physics base, so I suffered a lot (and I wasn't a bright student from my point of view) but I made it and started watching subjects related to my career. The first subject completely related to telecommunications was signals and linear systems, my professor on that time was a really good guy explained with love and tried to make the class interesting giving examples about real life! I was fascinated and I had a 'coup de foudre' for the telecommunications.

I had my first encounter with Gnu/Linux around 16-17 years old I read about it on internet and downloaded the most famous distribution by the time, Ubuntu, had no issues installing the OS (in dual but with windows XP) I was intrigued on how this “Ubuntu” could be free, but I learned more and more from it, at that time I didn't touch the terminal except for the usual ``` sudo apt-get update``` and ``` sudo apt-get upgrade``` and sometimes to install a program; my learning stopped because I had to dedicate more time to the university. Later on, I traveled to the USA with my parents and the new Mac Book air was released. I didn't know a thing about OSX just that is based on UNIX and that it is the main Microsoft's competition at the USA. However, I wanted one, 5 months later my dad gifted me the same computer, I was really excited! Completely different from Windows and Ubuntu, simpler, easier and stylish (from my point of view at that time), learned a lot about OSX. Sadly, I forgot Gnu/Linux for a time. I used OSX for my main activities and most of the activities needed windows. Therefore, I had to use Wine to search stuffs with this sentence: “Alternatives to ______ on mac”. The reliability of OSX and stability is something I'll always appreciate, how simpler and easier I could get things done. Nevertheless, I wanted more, I wanted to get inside the computer and see how the operative system works that's when my curiosity exploded and started reading about Linux in depth, and a [post](http://blog.qnology.com/2013/03/tutorial-pogoplug-e02-with-arch-linux.html) about how to customize a [Pogoplug](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-BAsDozLXMW4/UZWzKX4GtYI/AAAAAAAAKzY/GQxEaJmaU2A/s640/Pogoplugs.jpg) with [Arch Linux ARM](https://archlinuxarm.org/) enthralled my interest, so I bought that cheap ARM device just to install [Arch Linux](http://archlinux.org) (Linux distribution based on the KISS principle \[Keep It Simple, Stupid\]).

After creating a stable server with services like smb, Transmission-cli, Syncthing, Webmin, etc. I wanted to use windows managers, so I decided to make a space in my Mac and using Virtualbox created a Virtual machine with Arch Linux. After using Arch Linux for a while I felt in love but as everything in life, I had to spend some time to get used to it. Accordingly, I'm still learning more and more stuffs about Gnu/Linux and Unix, two years ago I could afford a new laptop and now I use Arch Linux as my main operative system on everything, but I didn't stop on Arch Linux I use Debian on some of my VPS and on my actual pre-grad thesis and I'm learning about OpenBSD.

<center>This is a quite limited summary but it piles up histories and interesting moments in my life related to the computers, the internet and Gnu/Linux.</center>
